Fix submitter unknown labels (#553)
AlexsLemonade/scpca-nf: templates/qc_report/utils/celltype_functions.rmd

    )

  if ("submitter_celltype_annotation" %in% names(celltype_df)) {
    celltype_df <- prepare_submitter_annotation_values(celltype_df)
  }

  if ("singler_celltype_annotation" %in% names(celltype_df)) {
    celltype_df <- prepare_automated_annotation_values(
      celltype_df,
      singler_celltype_annotation
    )
  }
  if ("cellassign_celltype_annotation" %in% names(celltype_df)) {
    celltype_df <- prepare_automated_annotation_values(
      celltype_df,
      cellassign_celltype_annotation
    )
  }

  return(celltype_df)
}

#' Prepare and reformat cell type automated annotation values for use in QC reports
#'  Unknown cell types are updated with the label "Unknown cell type", and
#'  cell types are ordered in order of descending frequency, but with
#'  "Unknown cell type" as the last level
#'
#' @param df The data frame containing cell type annotations, one row per cell
#' @param annotation_column The column (written plainly, not a string) containing annotations to reformat
#'
#' @return Updated data frame with the `annotation_column` reformatted
prepare_automated_annotation_values <- function(

>   df,
>   annotation_column) {

Reviewer: Avoiding later restyling. Apparently [tidyverse style is double-indented functions](https://style.tidyverse.org/functions.html#long-lines-1).
```suggestion
    df,
    annotation_column) {
```

        # otherwise, keep it
        .default = {{ annotation_column }}
      ) 
    ) |>
    # order column by number of cells
    forcats::fct_infreq() |>
    # make "Unknown cell type" the last level
    dplyr::mutate(
      {{ annotation_column }} := forcats::fct_relevel(unknown_string, after = Inf)
    )
}

#' Prepare and reformat cell type submitter annotation values for use in QC reports
#'  Unknown cell types are updated with the label "Unknown cell type", and
#'  cell types are ordered in order of descending frequency, but with
#'  "Unknown cell type" as the last level
#'
#' @param df The data frame containing cell type annotations, one row per cell
#'
#' @return Updated data frame with the `annotation_column` reformatted
prepare_submitter_annotation_values <- function(df) {
    
  # used for unknowns - strings which might be "unknown"-y
  unknown_strings <- c("na", "n/a", "<na>", "<n/a>", "null", "unknown", " ")
  
  # define variations here rather than lowering the submitter annotations themselves
  unknown_strings <- c(
    unknown_strings,
    stringr::str_to_upper(unknown_strings), 
    stringr::str_to_title(unknown_strings)
  ) |> 

>     unique()

Reviewer: I'd go the other way; it is safer that assuming you have all the capitalization variants: use a mutate to lower case everything, and maybe strip all non-characters?

Something like this:

```
unknown_strings <- c("na", "null", "unknown", "")

# remove non-word characters and lower case
normalized_levels <- submitter_levels |>
  stringr::str_replace_all("\\W+", "") |>
  stringr::str_to_lower()

unknown_levels <- submitter_levels[normalized_levels %in% unknown_strings]
```

Author: Nice!! 

```
> submitter_levels <- c("cell type", "Unknown", "<N/A>", "stephanie", "null")
>   unknown_strings <- c("na", "nan", "null", "unknown",  "") 
>   submitter_normalized_levels <- submitter_levels |>
+     stringr::str_replace_all("\\W+", "") |>
+     stringr::str_to_lower()
> 
> submitter_levels[submitter_normalized_levels %in% unknown_strings]
[1] "Unknown" "<N/A>"   "null"   
```

  
  # string for submitter-excluded cell types
  submitter_excluded_string <- "Submitter-excluded"
  
  # define baseline levels in descending order of frequency
  submitter_levels <- df$submitter_celltype_annotation |>
    forcats::fct_infreq() |>
    levels()
  
  # determine which of those levels are unknowns
  unknown_levels <- submitter_levels[submitter_levels %in% unknown_strings]
  
  # if submitter-excluded is present it should go at the VERY END regardless of count
  if (submitter_excluded_string %in% submitter_levels) {
    unknown_levels <- c(unknown_levels, submitter_excluded_string)
  }
  

>   # create new levels:
>   # all annotations, in order of frequency
>   # all unknowns, in order of frequency
>   # submitter-excluded, if present
>   new_submitter_levels <- c(
>     submitter_levels[!(submitter_levels %in% unknown_levels)], 
>     unknown_levels
>   )
>     
>   # finally, apply the new levels
>   df$submitter_celltype_annotation <- df$submitter_celltype_annotation |>
>     # just in case, remove any current levels
>     as.character() |>
>     factor(levels = new_submitter_levels)

Reviewer: I think you can do all of this with just:
```suggestion
# Move unknown levels to the end in order of frequency, in followed by submitter-excluded
df$submitter_celltype_annotation <- df$submitter_celltype_annotation |>
  forcasts::fct_relevel(unknown_levels, after = Inf)
```

Author: I swear I tried this and it didn't work w/ >1 level to relocate... but I just tried it again and it worked fine, so who knows what I did in testing..! Thanks for re-surfacing

```
> iris$Species |> fct_relevel(c("setosa", "virginica"), after=Inf) -> species
> levels(species)
[1] "versicolor" "setosa"     "virginica"
```
